1 Projekt Green Search

Hi. I'm Oli. Early last year, I became interested in the
sustainable software development movement. And today I would
like to show you one of the central ideas behind the movement
that is also the most "novel" approach, meaning that it is
the one approach unique to sustainble software development-
unlike topics like performance optimization, which are not 
unique.

2 Graphs 

The portion of sustainable software development that I am 
interested in today is the direct carbon footprint of running
our products. 
The two graphs here show the ever present abnormal rise of 
global temperatures since the industrial revolution and the
coinciding rise and type of electricity production. It shows 
that we are still mostly using oil, coal and natural gas 
for producing electricity. 

3 More graphs

The fact our industry uses a significant amount of energy
should not come as a surprise. In the final slide we see 
the figures from DATEV, where Rechenzentrum 1-4 (Datacenter
1 -4) are responsible more electricity usage as time goes
on. The DPSC is the in-house printing center.

4 So what is it

Let us say we want to use energy from renewables - either
to push the switch to renewables or to just produce fewer
emissions in the moment.
But we know that renewable energy production is at the moment
more variable - Wind has to blow, the sun has to shine.
So an idea worth following can be to start workloads at 
times - or in places - where renewable energy is abundant.

5 What others do

There is a number of things that have been done to 
propagate the idea of carbon awareness. 

- There are tools to estimate carbon footprint by looking
at the local energy mix.
- The bigger cloud platforms estimate the carbon emissions 
on workloads running on their services.
- Data Sources take historical and current data from the
energy market to estimate the carbon emissions of a local
energy grid.
- SDKs that access this data to present it in a convenient 
form for software developers.
- The bigger cloud platforms give an overview over where 
workloads will produce fewer carbon emissions.
- Data Centres that run on Renewables and reuse their 
excess heat 
- Home pages that can be switched to a less resource hungry
mode

6 What can we do

With the information I have shown you I would now like to ask
you. Do you agree? Is carbon awareness a worthy goal? What
could we do?

